---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Meet with Open Source"
---


The idea of making softwares __open source__ originated in 1990s when advocates of free softaware make up this word, open source, to make it more attractive to business. Thanks to the affordable and flexible attributes of open source licensing, the IT/Software industry witnesses its boom in America in the beginning of the new century, and in the meantime, its sprout in China. Today in Hangzhou, my hometown, there are several headquaters of leading Chinese IT companies, such as Alibaba and NetEase, all of which were established in late 1990s or early 2000s. Though tourism being a major industry of Hangzhou, these IT giants contribute about 30% of Gross Domestic Product of Hangzhou City. But this could not ever happen without open source.


The first time I heard of "open source" was probably when I was in primary school. My instructor of informatics course said he was a supportor of open source and he praise open source softwares a lot. At that time, I had no clear understanding of what "open source" is on earth. The Chinese translation of the word "open source," 开源, is gives a sense of positive meaning to native speakers, so for a young child like me, I just felt it should be good. As I grow up, I get to know more about open source. I feel great in open source as it contributes to the harmony for the society; however, I also recognize that without earning money, how can they do this sustainably? Also, the commercial competition under a closed source environment can also benefit the society, as competition is an accelerator of innovation. On the other hand, some evil guys would "trap" the ordinary people who just want to make use of a "free" software.


This year when I was browsing on course registeration website, the word "open sourse" grasped my eyes. And the time I saw it, there was a impulsion in my brain that makes my hand click on the "select" icon. And after the first lecture, I feel more confident and convinced for my choice. 


I love open source. Several years ago, when I was studying in China, people lost access to Google, along with Facebook and Twitter. And months later, __Wikipedia__ was blocked by the Chinese government as well. That would be a big issue, as Wikipedia is an important source of knowledge for me. Since then, I have been using the green browsers that were made by right-minded technicians, and almost all of these browsers are based on __Chromium__ or __Firefox__. Last year when I came to NYU, another open source project came into my horizon - that is __Sakai__, on which NYUClasses is based, and I use it regularly to check course announcement and homeworks.

And that is my story with open source.
