---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: A Tour of some Open Source Projects"
---

This is the fifth week of our [Open Source Software Development](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s20) course at New York University. This week we took a tour of some projects in the Open Source world.

On Monday, we focused on the aspect of project evaluation. We were divided into six groups, and the instructor assigned one project for each of the six groups:
- Ghidra
- GNOME Clocks
- Godot
- Inkscape
- Jupyter
- OpenEMR
My group were looking at the [OpenEMR](https://www.open-emr.org/). On their website, there are tons of instructions and docs on how to use and how to help developing: they have user tutorials, demos, feature introductions, blogs, forums, issues pages, chats, code of conduct, constribution pages, and of course, a link to their [repository](http://github.com/openemr/openemr), which is hosted on GitHub - basically, they have everything we look for. Just as professor said, if a project is not well maintained, or they don't care much about your contribution, your participation and involvment in that project will be frustrating, and it is likely that you are not going to succeed, so we should avoid these projects when we are choosing one to contribute to.

There is, however, another critical facet in choosing a project: the languages you are familiar with. At this point, unfortunately, their major language - PHP is the one that I have never taken a bite with. (By the way, all members from our school agree with me at this point.) It might be a good idea for me to take this bite as a start point, but definitely that sounds a bad suggestion for the sole purpose of this course.

By comparison, I would personally prefer [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/) which generally requires knowledge on C++ and Python, both of which I am comfortable with. Besides, I have been using their notebook for several months, and I feel their interactive features amazing and helpful for learning, and even report wording - in fact, last semester when I was writing a report for the CSCI-UA.060 Database course, I chose to use the Jupyter Notebook instead of LaTeX. Simple and elegant! I really admire the creator of this project, and I hope I could contribute to it someday somehow.

On Wednesday, Kevin P. Fleming, the assistant to the CTO from Bloomberg was invited to deliver a speech on their constributions and using of open source softwares. At first I felt confused what a **news agency** has to do with open source? Then it turned out that I was too naive. Everyday they have tons of data to process, which requires highly developed technologies in computer science and engeering. Later I also learned that many other big companies are also involved in the field of open source. And of course, the attribute of open source softwares infers that they can make them for commercial uses, so that companies could be benifitted from them. To put it into a nut shell, the flexibility and freedom are the keys.

And for the contribution to open source projects, I have very few of them up to now. I constributed some [test-cases](https://github.com/FungluiKoo/aps-test-cases) for the Algorithm Problem Solving course. In the meantime, I am doing an open source Hangzhou Metro Plan kmz file (needs to be opened in Google Earth Pro).