---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Exploring Git and Group Project First Meeting"
---

This is the seventh week of our [Open Source Software Development](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s20) course at New York University. The previous weeks have witnessed the spread of [Coronavirus](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2019-nCoV). And several univerties in the U.S. have switched to remote teaching mode. NYU, on the other hand, is known for its slow response. But anyway, we will stop in-person classes from Wednesday.

On Monday, we stepped furthur into the world of Git. With an amazing [Git visualizaiton tool](https://git-school.github.io/visualizing-git/), our professor taught us how to manage the branches:
 - what is a branch
 - HEAD pointer: the current branch
 - how to create a branch
 - how to switch between branches
 - how to delete a branch
 - how to intergrate work between different branches: merging and rebasing

Among these topics, the last one is the most complicated and the most important one. So we could only get a introductory bite and left the remaining to next time.

On Wednesday, we had our first online class. During the session, I found my group members: Amad, Barkin, and Quang. All of us are comfortable with Python 3. We chose Jupyter as our project focus and we decided to firstly set up the Jupyter environment. This, however, turned out some errors that needs to be handled. We didn't finish it in class, so we decided to leave it after class. We also decided to make Wednesday as our regular online meeting time. Beside that, we also decided to use Slack as our main chatting platform, so we could get feedback and communications in time and up to date.