---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: A Beta Version of FireFox Extension"
---

This is the third week of our [Open Source Software Development](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s20) course at New York University. Two weeks ago, students in this course were randomly divided into several groups, with each of them 3 students. I was working with [Sylvia Ji](https://github.com/sylviaji) and [Kyle Nelson](https://github.com/fieldchicken). And in the past two weeks, we together made a beta version of a FireFox extension that can show the local time of the three degree-granting campus of New York University (NYU) around the world.

Through working together, I gained skills on collaboration and communication. I gained knowledge on how a group of people distribute parts of a project, and gained experience on how people communicate online to track and follow up what others are doing, so that the work can get done smoothly, even though people did not sit together in one place. (Actually, we have been working remotely all the time except for the first meeting in class.) I found [slack](www.slack.com) useful with respect to remote collaboration. I believe there might be other similar tools including ones that could be even better. On top of that, this project also gives me exposure to GitHub usage, such as pull request and merge a branch.

Here I would also like to give special thanks to [Kyle Nelson](https://github.com/fieldchicken). He is the one who have been most familiar with JavaScript and CSS in our group. Without him, our project couldn't have been completed, as he contributed to the detailed coding in JS for our project. In the meantime, the project wouldn't see its today without [Sylvia Ji](https://github.com/sylviaji) who is leading us the whole team. I don't know how to code in JS, so what I could do is to provide thoughts and algorithm for the project; and also, I maintained the README file so it could be up to date. So next time when it comes to a topic that I feel more comfortable with, I will have a more significant impact to that project.

This week on Wednesday, all the groups in our class met together and all of them presented their project. Some of the groups brought extension with really amazing effects. Ours might not be the most fancy ones, but I believe it is one of the most useful extensions in the class, as our extension will truely benefit the NYU community. 
