---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Git Rebasing and Coronavirus Continued"
---

For the first time in my life have I felt so desparate.

Ann Arbor and Berkeley have proved out to be not so good. I also have friends in [UW Madison](https://www.wisc.edu/). They told me that the supply in local supermarkets are good, except for some local restaurants dining-in is no longer an available option. This seems good. Thankfully, one of my middle school classmate, who is now studying in [University of Miami](https://welcome.miami.edu/) invited me :) Florida, with good weather (as well as lower price than the expensive Manhattan), is an attracting option for me. So again, though f**king, I packed up all my stuff in New York... Wait, I have quite some winter clothings, which would never be needed in Florida. Fortunately for me, one of my friend lives in New York. So I dropped a whole box of clothing that I don't need right now at his home. He cooked very well by the way. Very good time there!

After half a month of troubles, I finally escaped New York and landed in this Sunshine State. These series of headaches cleared out my time and concentration on the Jupyter project, but now that I settled down in Miami, I will go back to work.

In class, the Gir teaching moved on. Before Spring Break, we tried on branch merging. And this week we explored branch rebasing. We were randomly assigned into groups of three to work on some exercises, and we wrote the answers to a shared online document. And due to the time limit, the major part of the exercises were left to Wednesday. But somehow, our written resuls disappeared (there must be someone who cleared them). What is more wierd is that we were re-assigned into different groups to restart the whole stuff! This might sound ridiculous, but I realized that in real world, sometimes groups may break up, or the company may ask you to move to another department.... This is life.