---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Open Source Topics"
---

This is the eleventh week of our [Open Source Software Development](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s20) course at New York University. This weeks' class features with some selected topics on open source.

[slides]("../slides/JupyterLab_Intro.pdf")

On Monday, we talked about [The Cathedral and The Bazaar](http://www.unterstein.net/su/docs/CathBaz.pdf) written by Eric Raymond. This essay introduces two types of open source development models, and I summarize them as below:
 - Cathedral model: codes are totally free (after the release of a version), but the development of between the releases are restricted. E.g.: Ubuntu, GCC.
 - Bazaar model: totally free and accessible/modifiable at any time. E.g. Jupyter, OpenstreetMap, Wikipedia.

The author also gives us some lessons, such as:
1. Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.
2. Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).
Some of these might sound a bit too arbitary as they include words like "every" but such wording do express the author's strong recommendation. And for me, once I read them for the first time, I feel these statements are just so agreeable.

One of my most favorable lessons is: "Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers." This reminds me of the birth history of WeChat. Around 2010, Tencent company decides to make a new generation of social & real-time communication software (and intended to be mobile as they felt the advent of smart phone era). As a big company, they established three groups to paralelly work on it to develop their own app. And one of the group in Guangzhou did the fastest, though their first release did have quite some bugs, the Tencent company immediately started to promote their product, which is later known as WeChat. Another group released their app, QChat, just only two months later, but now scarecely anyone have heard of it. And in fact, QChat was abolished years ago. Form then on, WeChat keeps a frequent regularity on updating, and they have always been re-designing their product based on customers' feedback, and this is a key to their success.

On Wednesday, [Gil Yehuda](https://www.linkedin.com/in/gilyehuda/detail/recent-activity/posts/), Sr. Director of Technology Strategy at Open Source Program Office at Verizon Media was invited to give us his experience in the industry. The most important thing I learned in this class is that when applying for a company, we can go to their repo and try to commit. Not only does this show the applicant's interest in the company, but also demonstrates the capability and skills of the applicant.

With regard to the group project, we made a decision on our focus and concentration. As you may know, there are many "sub-projects" under the big Project Jupyter. And at this time, we decided to do the [JupyterLab](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab). For convenience, we also forked the repository [here](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s20/jupyterlab).
